---
title: Jigs Esguerra | Centre for Technopreneurship and Innovation, Batangas State University
layout: interview
hero_image: /assets/img/interviews/jigs/jigs-paglalayag-interview.jpg
image:
  path: /assets/img/interviews/jigs/jigs-paglalayag-interview-og.jpg
  height: 380
  width: 380
  alt: If you're really dreaming something BIG, it really starts with something small, something that you didn't realize you are aiming at initially
podcast_link: https://paglalayag.net/assets/audio/jigs-paglalayag-audio.mp3
podcast_file_size: 17.5 MB
podcast_duration: "17:09"
podcast_length: 17537853
---

Since my first visit to BSU in 2018, I have continued to be impressed by the level of professionalism that I've seen from the teams I've had the privilege to work with.  

In my first encounter with Jigs and the Centre for Technopreneurship and Innovation (CTI), he had pulled together an entire auditorium full of fledgling engineering student to first introduce them to the concept of Technopreneurship.

-----------------

# Listen here!

/assets/audio/jigs-paglalayag-audio.mp3

-----------------

It's no small feat to introduce a new paradigm, and to pull the various players together towards a common goal.  But Jigs has always carried the task with a calmness that somehow makes these grand events look like no big deal.

Now that Batangas State wears the designation of `National Engineering University`, many are watching with interest on the kinds of technologies, startups and technopreneurship support programs that will be coming out of CTI and the broader University community.

You can follow along with their programs and progress on their [FB Page](https://www.facebook.com/iconsSL)

# Post Production Note
I didn't notice it at the time, but there was a lot happening at the Centre during our conversation. 

While I did what I could to filter out these artifacts in post-production.  It wasn't possible to remove all of the background noise.

It almost sounded as though we were in a dinosaur infested jungle next to a quarry full of miners picking away at the rock behind Jigs.

I can assure you this wasn't the case. **No dinosaurs or miners were harmed in the making of this podcast**.  Nor were we in danger from the same.

However, Paglalayag will be doing more of these gonzo, ambush-type interviews heading into 2025.  So we will be recording as-is, where-is.  No studio, no control over what's going on around us.

If you've been studying sound engineering &/or multimedia, we are looking for help us with post-production.  **You can reach out with your CV or portfolio** at [admin@paglalayag.net](admin@paglalayag.net)
